---
title: Who is this book for?
layout: post
---

The role of philosophy in the development of computer 
science is often understated to the detriment of newcomers 
interested in the field. Like with the other sciences, 
computer science developed from the work of *philosophers*: 
mathematicians, logicians and researchers whose inquiries 
pressed on *why* things were the way they were, cracking 
open the door to possibilities that continue to unfold 
today.

The term philosophy in the title of this book is to be 
understood as a method of inquiry, not a dogmatic belief 
system. The ideal reader is a **philosopher of technology**, 
someone whose curiosity for understanding the history of 
software development and the problems it has tried to solve 
will inevitably be piqued through this collection of essays 
and guides.

## Philosophy

Philosophy, broadly construed, is the discipline through 
which people have attempted to understand the world around 
them. As philosophers of technology, our goal will be 
to understand as much of the field as possible from various 
sources. This is because software development is a 
multi-disciplinary approach. For example, natural scientists 
like physicists often work with graphic designers and game 
developers to achieve realistic effects in video games. 
Biologists and physicians work with software engineers to 
develop medical software. Likewise, we will approach new 
topics with an eye towards universality, pulling from 
various fields to understand the "big picture" of web 
development.

## Improbable Questions

A philosopher of technology understands that the context in 
which a technology develops holds answers to as many 
philosophical questions as its documentation does for 
technical ones. We won't shy away from either &mdash;we will 
learn, for example, that questions like "can machines 
think?" have been asked before the rise of modern 
technologies like OpenAI's ChatGPT or Google's Gemini in a 
totally different historical context. That same question was 
once formally addressed in a 1950 paper[^1] by philosopher 
and computer scientist Alan Turning. Five years earlier, it 
is estimated Turing helped save between 14 to 21 million 
lives during World War II when he developed the computer 
algorithm that cracked Enigma, the military encryption 
machine used by German forces. What could *possibly* be the 
relationship between Britain's wartime efforts and the 
modern state of Artificial Intelligence? This is the type of 
question that a philosopher of technology would ask, perhaps 
leading to further discoveries such as learning that the 
technical foundation for the Internet we have today comes 
from ARPANET, a 1969 project developed under the 
jurisdiction of the United States Department of Defense.

## Up up and Away

In the field of aviation, we went from testing aeroplanes at 
the turn of the century to landing on the moon in the span 
of a generation. How is that possible? To understand the 
quick pace of technology we have to study the philosophical, 
social, and historical forces that push and pull upon it, 
sending it down various (seemingly unrelated) paths. The aim 
of this book is to help the reader follow these paths 
equipped not with all the answers, but certainly with the tools 
to ask the right questions.

---

[^1]: [Computing Machinery and Intelligence - Alan Turing (PDF)](https://redirect.cs.umbc.edu/courses/471/papers/turing.pdf)
